implicitly and what you're saying is
this some things are your responsibility
whether you want them to be or not and
some things are only a responsibility if
you choose to take them on as your
responsibility you know food and water
and air there are some things we've got
to say this is your responsibility and
you know if not you then who
not everyone's gonna take responsible
you've gotta go and ask people will you
will you take responsibility for the
consequences of you know what's on your
fork what's on your knife what's on your
plate every day the animal suffering
ecology health everything else sure and
that's why I preach man I don't I don't
preach for everyone to go do
humanitarian work in in Lausanne if I
don't I think very few people should do
that there are some special people for
whom that might be a good path in life
but yeah veganism is for everybody
- Yin hey guys I did an interview with a
vegan activist podcaster and organizer
for cube of truth anonymous the
voiceless just last week and he asked me
at one point in the conversation what do
I have to say about the simmering
conflict between vegan activists and
intersectional activists intersectional
ism so in just a minute you're going to
hear my direct earnest answer that
question but here's the thing I like to
make videos so they won't just be
meaningful the day they get uploaded to
YouTube but so they'll be meaningful if
people come back and watch them five
years from now if I come back and watch
them five years from now
etc etc and I feel I have to say a
little bit about the context this video
is being made in in the year 2018 and
the context is this really a lot of
hatred directed towards vegans from the
far left wing from socialists leftists
crypto communists and including most of
the people who use the concept of
intersectional ISM positively now we
have to digress on the
point people who defend the idea of
intersectional ism especially within
academia will often try to describe it
as a value neutral analytical toolkit as
an approach to research as an approach
to the academic discussion of politics
that could be used by anybody with any
political bias anyone who's interested
in issues of overlapping oppressions
intersecting compressions riddle me this
when was the last time you saw an
intersectional isten alysus of how
oppressive communism was to the citizens
of Russia after the year 1917 when was
less time you saw an intersectional
analysis of the overlapping oppressions
of what it was like to be alive in China
during the life and dictatorship of
communist leader Mao Zedong yes in
theory the intersection list approach to
politics could be used by a moderate
person a centrist person or even a
conservative person even a right-wing
person to look at different types of
historical and political situations um
but it is absolutely absurd to suggest
in the year 2018 that this is a value
neutral tool used for research in
academia that doesn't bring with it a
very definite political agenda and maybe
that's to be regretted and maybe five
years from now that'll change I doubt it
but it's possible now in terms of the
hostility that vegan activist and anyone
he talks positively about veganism faces
from the far left this has been the
subject itself of real formal academic
research the one author I know who
published on it was dr. will Kim Lucca
this is Kim lequel Kim Lucca is spelled
with a k and a y and you can guess the
rest dr. bull Kamaka um he basically
tried to write the history of why animal
rights and left-wing politics have
always mutually rejected each other
even though people who are in the center
or conservatives or the right people
outside tend to assume that animal
rights is a left-wing thing and it's not
now again historically you have to
understand like from my own mother for
her generation my mother having been a
university radical in 1968 so I should
have done the quotation marks for
radical I was a little bit too slow
there and getting the quote the
airport's up be a university radical in
68 for her the core of left-wing
identity had to do with things like
labor unions had to do with the concept
of the general strike had to do with the
idea of the working class rising up and
imposing working-class values as opposed
to bourgeois values and as opposed to
aristocratic values right now what is
working-class values really mean that's
another question but it's very obvious
that from a left-wing perspective they
are stabbing at the at the heart of
veganism when they claim that veganism
is elitist that veganism is linked to
white privilege that veganism is part of
these nebulous intersecting oppressions
and that's what we deal with every day
as vegans and that's what I dealt with
literally today so again whether or not
you deal with this on a daily basis has
to do with how many left-wing people you
talk to I was walking down the street I
had literally just been eating kale and
I had kale in my teeth and I was wearing
a vegan t-shirt so I'm about as
stereotypical vegan as you can possibly
get and this young woman buttonholes me
to have a conversation with me and she
starts off by saying you have something
green in your teeth great great way to
pick up a dude ladies great way to start
a conversation and I said oh yeah that's
that's probably kale I just ate some
kale and if it was and we start chatting
the main reason I was talking to her was
that I'm still learning Chinese and I'm
always really looking for people to be
language partners touch my nose Jenny's
but as soon as this conversation gets
rolling what she lays on me is oh yeah
yeah veganism she just been discussing
veganism in her political science and
Gender Studies classes she's a major in
politics and Gender Studies up
University of Victoria and she lays on
me these these exact oceans you know
veganism is somehow about white people
oppressing non-white people veganism is
elitist etc etc this is this
intersectional as condemnation of
veganism and you know I don't really
think any of the finer points of
intersessional ISM as theory are to
blame there I think what's really
lacking is basically generosity of
spirit it's basically four people on the
left wing to say oh that's interesting
what can I learn from that what can I
learn from your experience and look guys
we just happen to be criticizing the
left wing here but believe me I can
criticize the right wing and
conservatives far more harshly than this
but you know I really find that when I
talk to left-wing people I especially
here mean english-speaking left-wing
people England Canada Australia um if I
tell them something like oh yeah yeah
you know I've just been doing
humanitarian work in Cambodia and Laos
I've just come back I've never once had
a left wing person capable of just
saying oh that's interesting or oh wow
great or even asking in an open-ended
way like oh so do you think that was
effective but do you think it went well
do you think you really had outcomes
that mattered or did you feel it was a
waste of time like do you feel there
were real impacts it was a lack of
impacts I am the most skeptical and
open-minded person on that I'm really
willing to discuss that with people I
don't go around preaching that like the
particular humanitarian projects I was
involved with had a great positive
impact on the world on the contrary I'm
really skeptical and I really like to
say well I was part of a project that
was trying to help starving people by
giving them food and by improving their
methods of agriculture but actually you
know we could have been doing more harm
than good and here's why I'm completely
willing to have that conversation
I don't expect other people to cheerlead
for me and I don't present like
propaganda about the particular
political causes and questions I've been
involved with my own life
that includes veganism if this is your
first time coming to the channel welcome
but I do not do propaganda or
cheerleading for veganism I ask I ask
tough questions um
but yeah at bottom I I don't actually
think in this sense that intersectional
ism is the problem I think the problem
is a fundamentally defensive attitude on
the part of many left wingers not all a
sense of who do you think you are don't
you know who I think I am where they
cannot be satisfied if you tell them
about any moral claim or any ethical
cause that matters to you like if I
personally care about em and involve
with the Kree in the Egyptians politics
First Nations language extinction
politics of Education and poverty of
indigenous peoples of Canada when I tell
them that and they can't just be happy
for me or even have a skeptical attitude
like okay so here's someone with a
different background and different set
of interests what can I learn from that
whether it's that or Cambodia or
veganism would they respond to veganism
just as a threat like oh so you have a
way to make the world a better place
and it has nothing to do with me and my
issues and like the philosophy of Emma
Goldman or whatever it is they're
they're heavily committed to it has
nothing to do with ideological
commitments I've already made
therefore I I'm gonna do what I have to
do to undermine and discredit you and
and your worldview but I wanted to add
this this is my last note and we go
straight to me giving the direct answer
in this interview about this topic you
know a couple videos ago I was
addressing the issue of reduce at
Arianism and I said to you guys honestly
and bluntly reduce at Arianism is a
threat it's a threat to the vegan
movement it's a threat to vegan
philosophy it's a threat and here's why
because it's an income look we can't
make common cause with a genuinely
incompatible cause and they're really
incompatible I would not say the same
about intersectional
I really wouldn't there's no reason
fundamentally why veganism should be
incompatible with you know people who
are basically concerned about the way in
which racism and sexism and other forms
of hierarchy and oppression can overlap
intersect there's there's no need for
those to be incompatible or in conflict
with another however at the time that
I'm making this video in 2018 for
totally extrinsic reasons the reality is
they are in conflict one at one another
and just today walking down the street
this young woman starts talking to me
and the minute I mention oh yeah like
I'm a vegan activist I'm involved in
vegan politics
the first thing she wants to tell me is
how her gender studies professor and
other left-wing university professors
are telling her how veganism is a really
terrible thing and it's somehow about
like sophisticated wealthy people in the
cities opressing poor tribal peoples
living on small tropical islands or
groups like the Inuit who survive by
fishing
allegedly if you've ever actually met
and talked to any what people very few
of them are living a traditional
livelihood anymore story for another
video but where there's this framework
presented to them in the university
classroom on a basis of air SATs
far-left
crypto communist politics to some extent
bundled up with intersectional jargon
and that they're approaching veganism
with a kind of phony skepticism and a
deep-seated sense of resentment
hostility and defensiveness that then we
as vegans have to deal with every day
adventists yen right no so I look I just
made a video about this yesterday so
it's something I've been thinking about
recently but it's nothing comes up again
and again and you know the one word I
use most of all I tell you what this is
tragic this is part of the tragedy of
life you know not just in 2018 it always
was always has been always
we'll be when I was doing humanitarian
work and politics in Laos and Cambodia
you know I'm ethnically Jewish people
would want to have conversation with me
about politics in Israel and I'd say to
them I don't do Israel Palestine I don't
do Syria like I don't that's not my
field of expertise that's not when I'm
out here or like right now doing
humanitarian work in Laos and this takes
everything of God like you know just
saying like if you want to know about
Lotion politics you can't even spell the
name of the politician at first you know
kit zoom boom even right uh-huh
right and when was that you know
whatever experience living italic there
really is like a barrier there you know
of course linguistically and in terms of
historical and political oh she was like
look this what I'm doing but but make
even the further point that even within
veganism in terms of that this tragedy
of specialization if you really care
about dolphins in the Mekong River or if
you really care about orangutans in
Indonesia or if you really care about
deer or bears in Canada I mean
groundhogs in Canada any species like
this in Canada once you've fastened onto
that once you've made that the locus of
your activism your advocacy your
research your thoughts your emotions
your tying your money
quite possibly that is gonna take
everything you've got to give and you
know now you're the guy of course here
in Victoria the most common example is
Wales there are people who start
becoming whale advocates or dolphin
advocates and then that's it you know
everything they've got to give in life
and even veganism becomes less important
or disappears you know into the
background even if they got into it
because they were they were vegan first
so yeah I think that is really um you
know part of the fundamental tragedy of
being human and you know you find ways
to talk about it where it's clear like
okay like Here I am in Laos and Cambodia
and I'm not gonna tell you I don't care
about what's happening in Syria or
Israel or Palestine I'm gonna tell you
that's not my responsibility
like right now I'm literally part of
this humanitarian project here in Laos
and this is what you know my thought
and time and energy goes to and that's
that's a choice you can make and then
the other side of it that I've talked
about you know on YouTube is how
heartbreaking that is when the project
ends when I left Laos so I was doing
humanitarian work in Laos in the most
obvious kind of humanitarian project so
the really brief but the project
included handing sacks of rice to
starving people so that's like the
simplest Kyle Kate you're starving we're
gonna give you food it's the simplest
guy that's not all they did they did
other things too but it's the simplest
kind of humanitarian intervention and I
was kicked out of the country with death
threats from a government official
government official freaked out and said
she was gonna have me killed she went
all this detail my parents would never
find my body be buried in the jungle and
all this stuff it was quite a quite a
desert yeah so I left that country with
nothing but my backpack and my bicycle
and it's like wow
so I've put no I had no money I mean I
was broke but I've put years of my life
into learning the language learning the
politics learning the history but also
learning practical things like how the
government works now the humanity how
the humanitarian sector works so I can
get out there and make this positive
difference in the world and now all of
that's over all of that for nothing
so again we already talked this way at
the beginning this interview I put in
all this time and effort and a little
bit of money it's not that much money
into learning Korean a Jib way and
trying to make it pause the difference
that way and then when that ended it was
like wow you know all the silver so
that's that's the flipside of that
tragedy you can specialize and you know
life you know circumstances beyond your
control I'm tempted to use words like
fate or destiny but I'm not I don't
believe in fate or destiny punch you
circumstances beyond your control can
separate you forever from being able to
make the positive difference that you
were training yourself to make that you
were studying to make the Cure that you
were learning to make and of course that
could happen with something like
dolphins also you know can you put all
this energy into doing dolphin activism
and then whatever you have to move to
Detroit and there are no dolphins in
Detroit you have to move somewhere for
whatever reason you're really cut off
from that yeah so when you're talking
about making a real difference on
specific issues whether it's within
veganism or where
it's outside of veganism that is the
fundamental tragedy and now implicitly
in what I've said I don't think I have
to say it implicitly
is that I'm in effect I'm anti
intersectional list because I think
people and intersectional ISM part of
the problem is wanting to believe that
you can do everything and I'm saying no
no no let's really let's really deal
with the tragedy that you can't and even
according in all these things your own
ignorance is infinite there are people
you know and they mean well who make
political statements about Cambodia and
Myanmar and Laos and they think they're
let's say they're the the stereotypical
intersectional list left-wing
intersectional list in theory someone
could be a right-wing intersectional
still never heard of that but you know
in theory it could be you know they
really think they're doing the right
thing but it's like you haven't read one
book about the history of this country
and you know you should probably read
about three before you have this kind of
conclusion or make this kind of extreme
political statement even though that
political statement may be motivated by
compassion you know what I mean and we
just went through this with with palm
oil at length people want to take a
position on palm oil and it's like I'm
saying but you know I've been to a palm
oil farm you don't like if you know if
you really thought this through you try
to get some Socratic dialogue going but
yeah it's it's really easy it's easy to
multiply your own ignorance by
multiplying your ideological commitments
to mature sectionalism and I'd rather
deal with really earnestly our own
finitude where it's like look just this
question starving people in Laos that's
gonna take everything I've got and you
know agriculture and rubber plantations
and you know they're all these related
issues understanding what's going on in
the economy and farming and the
education sector why people are starving
and how do they get their children to
school when you live in a town that's
not connected anywhere by roads and the
illiteracy and minority languages all
these things were interconnected I
poured everything I could into that and
I developed expertise and once I'm back
in Canada I have no more career path I
can't get a PhD I can't do anything with
that knowledge and hey here's the final
tragedy and I see statements made by the
Government of Canada and by the Senate
of Canada and the people involved within
the government they don't know what I
know
than over my background and by the way
you can get that level really quickly
God met people with the whale issue
whether it's whales or wild goats or
wolves if you do that with animal
advocacy very quickly within a couple of
years you'll know more than the people
in government about about whales or but
that specific whale population and what
the ecological problems are so you know
you develop that expertise then within a
couple of years of commitment to an
issue yeah
that's not unique to my circumstance
there you go man that's as heartfelt as
it gets right right right no look it's
look I think I mean I just want to say
this explicitly implicitly and what
you're saying is this some things are
your responsibility whether you want
them to be or not and some things are
only a responsibility if you choose to
take them on as your responsibility I
was not born with any responsibility to
the people of Laos or Cambodia I chose
that but if you eat three times a day
maybe you eat four times a day once a
day but you eat watch this video eats it
is surreal to claim you have no
responsibility for the food that goes in
your body and that's why veganism is so
Universal sobering flipside I did
advocacy on pollution water pollution in
Toronto and you think wow everyone's
gonna care about this issue because they
all drink the water nope
you'd be amazed at how easy it is for
human beings to just just shirk their
responsibilities to just not care even
when I could show them at that time I
don't know if this has changed or I
could show them a map and say this is
where the sewage goes out into Lake
Ontario and this is the pipe where your
where your drinking water comes from and
they're they're right next to each other
you know and you might think wow people
are gonna get interested in getting so
you know I mean that that is that is the
gap but no I mean I absolutely you know
food and water and air there are some
things we got to say this is your
responsibility and it you know if not
you then who
not everyone's gonna take sponsor but
you've got
ask people will you will you take
responsibility for the consequences of
you know what's on your fork what's on
your knife what's on your plate every
day the animal suffering ecology health
everything else sure and that's why I
preach man I don't I don't preach for
everyone to go do humanitarian work in
in Lausanne if I don't I think very few
people should do that there are some
special people for whom that might be a
good path in life but yeah veganism is
for everybody
sure a bonus Yin